It's time for another Dangerous Aside.
This is New and Functions.
So we've already said that when
we're using function constructors
that they're really just functions.
They're regular functions.
I'm adding the new operator in front
of them and that changes some things.
Creates a new empty object,
when the execution context runs it points
to this variable at that new empty object.
And if you don't return anything
explicitly it returns that
new object for you.
But this is still just a function and
that's where the dangerous part comes in
because if I forgot to
put on the new keyword.
What's going to happen?
Well it will still execute the function.
The JavaScript engine doesn't know whether
or not you intend to execute the function
or to execute the function
using the new keyword.
It's just a function.
So it'll let you just try to execute it.
And since it doesn't return anything
explicitly, it returns undefined,
which means your objects that you're
trying to create will actually be just be
set equal to undefined.
And when I try to use any properties or
methods on that object since it's
undefined I'll get an error.
Watch.
There it is.
I have undefined as my two objects and
when I try to use a method, it didn't
go down the prototype chain because
it's not an object, it's just undefined.
This is a real problem.
This is one of the reason why people say
bad things about function constructor.
But, function constructors are only there
in the first place to try to appease
syntactically programmers
coming from other languages.
So, it is kind of silly.
But once you get used to it,
it's not that bad.
And, you can make certain that
you are doing this properly
by just following a simple convention.
Any function that we intend
to be a function constructor,
we use a capital letter for its name.
The first letter is a capital letter.
That way if I'm looking around and
I see that I have a bunch of errors and
I notice a function call with
a capital letter without the new.
Then I know I probably
forgot the new keyword.
That's just a convention.
There are some programs then that
could try to help you with that.
They're called Linters.
And they might see a function with
a first letter that's capital,
and that you don't use a new keyword.
And you can run your JavaScript
through those programs,
so it warns you of those
kinds of problems.
None the less, it's not a great solution
because the JavaScript engine itself
doesn't Care whether you do or
you don't have the new operator on there.
So you can make unintentional errors that
the JavaScript engine won't catch for
you when it goes to run your program.
You'll just just end up having errors in
the program itself as it's executing.
So this is an aside about
the danger of this.
I recommend if you're dealing
with function constructors, that
you always have a capital letter
as the name of the constructor.
That it starts with a capital letter.
So that you can quickly pick up and remind
yourself that you need to use the new
operator before invoking this function
to get your object back properly.
Now that said, there are new ways
coming in JavaScript to create objects.
So function constructors
are likely going away.
They're not going to go
away completely though,
because we still need to support years of
JavaScript programs that have been built.
And you as a developer
unfortunately you're
not always going to work
on brand new projects.
There's plenty of times where you'll
work on older, what's called,
legacy project and
you'll be dealing with these patterns.
So, it's good to understand how they work,
they're just for building objects.
But, be careful about making sure
that you have the new operator
when you're using a function
as a function constructor.